---
title: My Reading List
---

## 2021

### Death's End

> By Cixin Liu

Absolutely great. A perfect ending to the Three Body Problem trilogy.

### The Dark Forest

> By Cixin Liu

The battle at the end was just awful. The whole lead up to intercepting the
probe was just so irrational. Anyone with any rational sense wouldn't form a
tight rectangular formation when confronting the probe of an enemy coming to
commit genocide of your race.

The fact that it took something like 3 minutes to break formation after getting
slaughtered by the probe is ridiculous as well. After seeing a whole row of 100
ships destroyed, the first instinct would be to at least spread out.

Otherwise though the book was good, and in a way even the terrible battle was
good because it got me emotionally invested, like watching a horror film and
going crazy over the characters' bad decisions.

### The Three Body Problem

> By Cixin Liu

The first hundred or so pages were boring to me, though the rest of the book was
great. I loved the ending.

### Outliers: The Story of Success

> By Malcom Gladwell

A good, but not great, book.

### Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow

> By Yuval Noah Harari

Alright.

### Ship of Fools: An Anthology of Learned Nonsense about Primitive Society

> By Christopher Robert Hallpike

An interesting look into primitive societies.

### Astrophysics for People in a Hurry

> By Neil deGrasse Tyson

The title is accurate.

### The Midnight Library

> By Matt Haig

A middle of the road fiction book about living your life in the now. Somewhat
interesting, but not great.

### Capitalism in America: An Economic History of the United States

> By Alan Greenspan

An interesting overview of the economics of mostly 1800-1900's america.

### Children of Time

> by Adrian Tchaikovsky

An excellent idea for a book. I loved it, though it surely should've been
shortened.

## 2020

### Map and Territory

> by Eliezer Yudkowsky

Overall I was unimpressed and found no value from Yudkowsky's writing.

### Essays by the LessWrong Community

> by an assortment of authors

Again, I was unimpressed by almost all of the essays written in this collection
of the best LessWrong essays compiled into book form.

My only real connection to the rationalist community is through, first reading
Gwern who I love, and then discovering the /r/slatestarcodex subreddit through
Eric Weinstein which I discovered was full of very interesting discussions.
Later on I discovered LessWrong is where this rationalist community was created,
including Gwern and Scott Alexander, the author of Slate Star Codex which the
subreddit formed around.

I love the rationalist community, but hate the essays outside of Gwern and Scott
Alexander.

### Pacific Crucible: War at Sea in the Pacific, 1941-1942

> by Ian Toll

The first of a trilogy about the pacific theatre.

Perhaps the most interesting history book I've read. I've read reviews which
claim Toll writes fiction-like non-fiction, in the sense that there's a
narrative story which keeps you hooked. I found this to be completely true, at
least when it came to the more grand broad strategy chapters of the book. The
more tactics focused specific battle retellings just wasn't something which
interests me. I don't really care that an aircraft carrier was receiving
landings at 10:20, re-arming the landed planes at 10:50, and launching again at
11:30 to give a made up example.

The strategy was 5/5, tactics 3/5 for me, at least when it comes to personal
interest, not quality-wise, in that case it would be 5/5.

## 2019

### 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos

> by Jordan Peterson

Ones view of this book is a litmus test for the ability to behave non-biased at
the most base level. There is absolutely nothing even coming close to
controversial within this book, unlike what many within the corporate media
spoke of. While yes, it is true that there's little profound advice, I find this
criticism unfounded as that seems emblematic of the self-help genre as a whole.

As for the purpose of the book, none of the 12 rules resulted in any actionable
change for myself. However, I still would recommend this book to those in dark
places looking to crawl out. Overall, I found Peterson's writing style pleasant
and don't regret my time spent reading this very normal book.

### Permanent Record

> by Edward Snowden

I'm a huge Snowden fan, and reading this book was an absolutely joyful
experience. If my memory is correct, the first half of the book focused on his
personal life with the latter half being more about the leaks themselves.

I really connected with Snowden's personal life story. It was exciting to read
about someone I felt somewhat connected with as we both dropped out of high
school, are interested in technology, have family military experience, and are
fairly patriotic.

I was far less interested in the information surrounding the leaks themselves,
as I was already very well informed, but I was still engaged the whole time.

Reading Permanent Record was very inspiring.

### No Surrender: My Thirty-Year War

> by Hiroo Onoda

The story of Hiroo Onoda, a Japanese intelligence officer who fought a guerilla
war in the Philippines which lasted 30 years after Japan's surrender.

It was very fascinating reading about this man's story. I liked reading about
his earlier military experience while stationed in Manchuria, dancing the nights
away in dance halls. Later on, during his infamous experience in the
Philippines, reading about his small squad slowly dying off or "abandoning" to
the post-war Filipinos was very interesting. The point where his brother came to
the island, with many others, to persuade him to surrender with no success was
sad and confusing. His receiving a postcard from his wife and children and yet
believing the postcard was propaganda due to their house in the background being
different, not aware of Japan being completely destroyed in the firebombing
raids, was sobering.
