content/docs/interesting.md, before:

---
title: Interesting
---

## Interesting Projects
### Jellyfin
[Jellyfin](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin) is a self-hosted home media solution. The project was created as a fork of [Emby](https://emby.media/) after the lead-developer made the project closed sourced. I think of the project as a great example of open source collaboration, as there doesn't seem to be a single developer running the show like with Emby. Overall though there's far too much technical debt due to the general architecture which has resulted in a somewhat poor experience for myself.

## Interesting Areas of the Internet
### Lindybeige
[Lindybeige](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9pgQfOXRsp4UKrI8q0zjXQ) is what I think of as a perfect humanities professor. He goes on hour-long unscripted talks about topics which deeply interests him and which normally interests myself as well. Most of his videos are focused on history or military history. 

### Gwern
[Gwern](https://gwern.net) is the pseudonyme of someone who gained popularity in the rationalsphere from his writing on [LessWrong](https://lesswrong.com), and, at least in my subjective opinion, exploded in popularity later on due to his research into darknet markets.

Commit message:

Include SerenityOS as an interesting project

content/docs/interesting.md, after:

---
title: Interesting
---

## Interesting Projects
### Jellyfin
[Jellyfin](https://github.com/jellyfin/jellyfin) is a self-hosted home media solution. The project was created as a fork of [Emby](https://emby.media/) after the lead-developer made the project closed sourced. I think of the project as a great example of open source collaboration, as there doesn't seem to be a single developer running the show like with Emby. Overall though there's far too much technical debt due to the general architecture which has resulted in a somewhat poor experience for myself.

### SerenityOS
[SerenityOS](https://github.com/SerenityOS/serenity) is a modern operating system made in homage to computing in the 90's. The operating system by itself isn't that interesting by itself. What makes it stand out from other hobbyist operating systems like [Redux](https://github.com/redox-os/redox) are the videos which the lead developer, [Andreas Kling](https://www.youtube.com/c/AndreasKling), releases on his YouTube channel documenting his workflow and problem solving.

## Interesting Areas of the Internet
### Lindybeige
[Lindybeige](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC9pgQfOXRsp4UKrI8q0zjXQ) is what I think of as a perfect humanities professor. He goes on hour-long unscripted talks about topics which deeply interests him and which normally interests myself as well. Most of his videos are focused on history or military history. 

### Gwern
[Gwern](https://gwern.net) is the pseudonyme of someone who gained popularity in the rationalsphere from his writing on [LessWrong](https://lesswrong.com), and, at least in my subjective opinion, exploded in popularity later on due to his research into darknet markets.
