StaticPotato/ExampleSite/content/index.md, before:

---
title: "Home"
---

Hello, I'm Justin M. Kidd.

I'm currently studying computer science at the University of Toronto. Previously
I was a software developer intern at SOTI.

I'm a software developer specialized in full-stack web development and DevOps.
I have experience with React, ASP.NET Core, Ruby on Rails, Django, Docker,
and Linux.

I prefer ergonomic type-safe languages like C#, TypeScript, and Rust. However,
dynamically-typed languages like Python, Ruby, Bash, and even PowerShell fill a
niche in scripting.

I'm a heavy proponent of containerization. I think software
developers should own the deploy process for the software they write. I think
less is more when it comes to code: concise and terse is better than repetitive
and verbose.

I enjoy history, politics, philosophy, and the pursuit of knowledge in general.

Explore my digital garden.

## Life

- [About Me](/about/)
- [My Time at the University of Toronto](/uoft/)
- [Stuff I Find Interesting](/interesting/)
- [My Reading List](/reading/)
- [My Favourite Media](/favourite-media/)

## Software

- [My Projects](/projects/)
- [Software Opinions](/software-opinions/)
- [My Self-hosting Setup](/my-selfhosting-setup/)
- [Why & How This Website Exists](/this-site/)

## Miscellaneous

- [Canadian Bank Comparison](/canadian-bank-comparison/)

Commit message:

Discuss products I like, PHL113, and opinions on software.

StaticPotato/ExampleSite/content/index.md, after:

---
title: "Home"
---

Hello, I'm Justin M. Kidd.

I'm currently studying computer science at the University of Toronto. Previously
I was a software developer intern at SOTI.

I'm a software developer specialized in full-stack web development and DevOps.
I have experience with React, ASP.NET Core, Ruby on Rails, Django, Docker,
and Linux.

I prefer ergonomic type-safe languages like C#, TypeScript, and Rust. However,
dynamically-typed languages like Python, Ruby, Bash, and even PowerShell fill a
niche in scripting.

I'm a heavy proponent of containerization. I think software
developers should own the deploy process for the software they write. I think
less is more when it comes to code: concise and terse is better than repetitive
and verbose.

I'm an advocate of the free software movement. I support the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, and the Free Software Foundation. I contribute to freedom-respecting
software on [GitHub](//github.com/potatodiet). I'm, however, also a realist. I'm
therefore okay with using closed source software if the alternative free
software choices are lacking. Hence, I'm okay with the seemingly ironic aspect
of contributing to free software projects on closed-source GitHub.

I enjoy history, politics, philosophy, and the pursuit of knowledge in general.
I occasionally contribute
to [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:PotatoDiet).

Explore my digital garden, and then
checkout [Ellie Zhang](https://ellie.monster).

## Life

- [About Me](/about/)
- [My Time at the University of Toronto](/uoft/)
- [Stuff I Find Interesting](/interesting/)
- [My Reading List](/reading/)
- [My Favourite Media](/favourite-media/)

## Software

- [My Projects](/projects/)
- [Software Opinions](/software-opinions/)
- [My Self-hosting Setup](/my-selfhosting-setup/)
- [Why & How This Website Exists](/this-site/)

## Miscellaneous

- [Philosophy](/philosophy/)
- [Canadian Bank Comparison](/canadian-bank-comparison/)
- [Minor Annoyances](/minor-annoyances/)
- [Product Choices](/product-choices/)
