---
title: "Books I Read in 2019"
date: 2021-11-15
tags:
  - Reading
summary: An overview of the 3 books I read in 2019.
---

## 12 Rules for Life: An Antidote to Chaos

> by Jordan Peterson

Ones view of this book is a litmus test for the ability to behave non-biased at
the most base level. There is absolutely nothing even coming close to
controversial within this book, unlike what many within the corporate media
spoke of. While yes, it is true that there's little profound advice, I find this
criticism unfounded as that seems emblematic of the self-help genre as a whole.

As for the purpose of the book, none of the 12 rules resulted in any actionable
change for myself. However, I still would recommend this book to those in dark
places looking to crawl out. Overall, I found Peterson's writing style pleasant
and don't regret my time spent reading this very normal book.

## Permanent Record

> by Edward Snowden

I'm a huge Snowden fan, and reading this book was an absolutely joyful
experience. If my memory is correct, the first half of the book focused on his
personal life with the latter half being more about the leaks themselves.

I really connected with Snowden's personal life story. It was exciting to read
about someone I felt somewhat connected with as we both dropped out of high
school, are interested in technology, have family military experience, and are
fairly patriotic.

I was far less interested in the information surrounding the leaks themselves,
as I was already very well informed, but I was still engaged the whole time.

Reading Permanent Record was very inspiring.

## No Surrender: My Thirty-Year War

> by Hiroo Onoda

The story of Hiroo Onoda, a Japanese intelligence officer who fought a guerilla
war in the Philippines which lasted 30 years after Japan's surrender.

It was very fascinating reading about this man's story. I liked reading about
his earlier military experience while stationed in Manchuria, dancing the nights
away in dance halls. Later on, during his infamous experience in the
Philippines, reading about his small squad slowly dying off or "abandoning" to
the post-war Filipinos was very interesting. The point where his brother came to
the island, with many others, to persuade him to surrender with no success was
sad and confusing. His receiving a postcard from his wife and children and yet
believing the postcard was propaganda due to their house in the background being
different, not aware of Japan being completely destroyed in the firebombing
raids, was sobering.
