---
title: Children of Time
---

## Plot
Children of Time begins far in the future where Humanity has made many technological achievements, and more importantly, many mistakes. They are now terraforming planets many light years away with the idea of starting intelligent life anew, from scratch, without the mistakes they've made. Their plan is to achieve this by transporting unintelligent Earth creatures to these planets, and using what's called the nanovirus to rapidly uplift while also implanting a deep feeling of connection with other infected minds, which will reduce the creatures' willingness to wage war against themselves.

One such uplift mission is ran by Dr. Kern, who at the book's start is on her way to an already terraformed planet to deploy nanovirus-infected monkeys. Along the way terrorists attack across all of humanity, destroying civilization. A sleeper agent in Dr. Kern's crew attacks the ship, killing the monkeys, but the insects survive along with the nanovirus. Dr. Kern continues with the mission, deploys what she believes are her monkeys on the terraformed planet, then hands control over to an Artificial Intelligent before going into a deep sleep, to be awoken once her monkeys are uplifted.

Now, even further in the future, humanity has, as expected, technologically regressed with the destruction of civilization. They've virtually destroyed the Earth's ecosystem and have sent out an arc ship, the Gilgamesh, with humanity's last hope of a future towards Dr. Kern's terraformed planet.

Millennia later, the Gilgamesh along with its cryogenically young crew arrive within vicinity of Dr. Kern, yet the AI in charge has gone mad, viscously defending her planet from any intruders. Her planet is to recreate new life, not to be infested with the failed species of Humans. The AI however is intelligent, so it tells the Gilgamesh of another terraformed planet, hoping to simply send them away. The few awakened crew of the Gilgamesh decide not to risk destruction by the vastly superior Dr. Kern AI hybrid and go along towards that other terraformed planet, but first decide on planting a self sustaining base on one of the moons in Dr. Kern's solar system.

To build such a moon base, they need workers, so they begin waking people up to send down, which results in a riot from the unwilling future moon base workers. Some of the rioters manage to capture a shuttle pod and attempt an escape towards Dr. Kern's planet. After landing on the planet, they open up the hatch and face havoc by a relatively huge nanovirus infected ant. The Gilgamesh, with help from Dr. Kern's AI, send a team down to capture the escapees and witness a huge uplifted spider. During this event, Guyen, the Gilgamesh's captain shows himself to be a ruthless leader due to executing the captured rioters.

They then quickly build the moon base hidden from Dr. Kern, and set sail towards the newly received coordinates of the other terraformed planet. Once there, they discover the planet is inhospitable, but locate an Old Empire space station which they strip of resources and discover the technology required for uploading a person's consciousness into machines, which Guyen sets out to accomplish for himself.

The Gilgamesh sets their sights back on Dr. Kern's planet now that they have Old Empire technology. Guyen has begun the trial and error of uploading himself into the Gilgamesh, and a cult has formed around him as their saviour, preventing anyone from impending his work. While travelling back to Dr. Kern's planet, a power struggle breaks out and Guyen is killed before he can fully upload himself to the ship.

While all of this has been going on with the last survivors of humanity, Dr. Kern's world has seen a species of intelligent nanovirus-infected spiders come to dominate. The spiders, due to the nanovirus, have an aversion towards killing one another, but have in their uplifting process have domesticated ants into doing their bidding. Many wars have broken out, using the ants to fight, but by the time of humanity reaching the planet, they have been essentially united into one world spanning culture. The spiders have been listening to Dr. Kern's transmissions to the planet as far back as they can remember, and had originally seen her as a god, but now, with the knowledge of an advanced people who understand science and know she's just a satellite orbiting their planet, see her as another conscious being like themselves.

## Thoughts